Project 4. Analysis of Crime Network

The project relies on the analysis of a dataset from operation Oversize, an Italian criminal case against a mafia group. The investigation lasted from 2000 to 2006, and targeted more than 50 suspects involved in international drug trafficking, homicides, and robberies. A trial took place from 2007 till 2009, and judgment passed where the main suspects were convicted with penalties from 5 to 22 years of imprisonment. So three separate dataset corresponding to before the trial, arrest warrant and judgment. The nodes correspond to the individuals, involved in illicit activities. The dataset also contains for any pair of nodes (individuals) the number of telephone calls between these two individuals. The dataset can be downloaded from https://figshare.com/articles/Oversize_network/3156067  

1.Assume that an edge between two nodes is established whenever there is at least one telephone call between the two individuals. Summarize in three distinct tables the key characteristics of each network (number of nodes, number of edges, global clustering coefficient, average path length, maximum degree, average degree, size of giant component, maximum centrality, average centrality, maximum betweeness centrality, average betweeness centrality, maximum closeness centrality, average closeness centrality, number of communities, quality of each community). <br /><br />
2.Assume that an edge between two nodes is established only if the number of phone calls between the two nodes is beyond a threshold k. Suggest a subdivision of k from 1 till some number n, and draw plots showing the evolution with respect to k of the global clustering coefficient, difference between maximum centrality and average centrality, difference between maximum betweeness centrality and average betweeness centrality, number of communities detected and quality of community detected. Conclude in terms of criticality of threshold k to make fine decisions for each network. <br /><br />
3.We would like to investigate the consistency between the three networks as a way to construct a new edge allocation mechanism. For this purpose, we would like to test various hypotheses. First, we assume that there is an edge between nodes A and B if the number of calls between A and B has shown important change between Network 1, Network 2. Decide on a rational interpretation of the “important change” according to a predefined metric. An example would be, for instance, an edge between A and B is established whenever the number of calls between A and B varies by at least a threshold k from Network 1 to Network 2 (where k is defined according to some heuristic taking into account the mean and standard deviation values). Therefore you expect to provide a formal meaning of “important change” (you can borrow some concepts from related literature of your choice). Construct the underlined network and summarize the attributes of the networks as in question 1. <br /><br />
4.Repeat question 3 when the change is between Network 1 and Network 3. <br /><br />
5.Repeat question 3 when the change is between Network 2 and Network 3. <br /><br />
6.We would like to simulate a random network whose clustering coefficient, diameter, maximum density, average density are as close as possible to that obtained in question 1 for each of the three networks. Use appropriate random graph generator in Networkx with number of nodes equal to that original network and do vary probability value p, and calculate the aforementioned graph attributes, and test the closeness with that of the original graph.<br /><br />
7.Comment the findings using some literature of crime studies.<br /> <br />
